$ xforge help check
exit: 0

{
  "protocolVersion": "2",
  "ok": true,
  "command": "help",
  "root": null,
  "data": {
    "usage": "xforge [--root <path>] <command> [options] [--text]",
    "commands": {
      "help": "Show general or command-specific help.",
      "version": "Show CLI, protocol, runtime, and build identity.",
      "init": "Initialize the bundled npm Scaffold and optionally project it into one Agent tool.",
      "state": "Read resolved project and Change state. --field prints one value and nothing else, addressed as a dotted path through data (for example change.governance.revision.contentRevision, or change.governance.readyTransitions.0.to — both need --change). Use it instead of grepping the JSON: several governance fields repeat under every historical receipt, so a line-oriented match returns whichever came first rather than the current one.",
      "install": "Install or idempotently reconcile selected project assets.",
      "sync": "Incrementally sync localized Scaffold changes to installed targets.",
      "update": "Fully reconcile installed targets, identities, and Adapter output.",
      "uninstall": "Remove managed target files, refusing on a digest mismatch unless --force.",
      "check": "Validate project structure, deliveries, and the Gates the current Stage requires. With no Gate selection this also executes the verify commands declared by every work package, which for a large plan is dozens of external commands and minutes of wall time; narrowing with --gate, --stage or --all-gates runs only the selected Gates and skips them. Every one of those commands runs in this same working tree, one after another, so a verify command must be safe to re-enter: a suite that writes to a fixed scratch path, or asserts wall-clock throughput, will fail here for reasons that have nothing to do with the code under test.",
      "stage-bundle": "List which of this Change's Artifacts have moved since the current Stage was entered, and which a digest can stand in for. A Transition receipt records the commit its Stage began at, so the set that changed is computable rather than assumed; the Stage's own outputs and the Constitution are always listed to be read, and an uncommitted edit anywhere under the Change voids every digest because git compares commits and cannot see one.",
      "explain": "Say what a diagnostic code means: its severity, and every message it can carry, from a catalogue frozen into this build. One code is raised from more than one place and each says something slightly different; which of those a reader has not met is what tells them the code has another cause. No project is required.",
      "verification": "Declare how this project runs a declared-verification Gate, without hand-editing the Manifest; retire a declaration that should stop running, keeping the record of who withdrew it and why; or draft the current Stage's verification receipt from what XForge already knows. The draft omits `status` and writes nothing: that field is the Stage's assertion that the work was verified, and a CLI filling it in would be deciding the thing the receipt exists to record. finalize writes the same facts for you once you supply that assertion yourself, as --status passed signed with --by. It is not a shortcut past the check: before recording that a Gate passed it re-reads that Gate's Evidence from disk, and it writes nothing at all if any Gate the Stage cites is stale against the current content revision, failed, or never ran — naming the re-run, the fix, or the first run, because those are three different problems. passed is the only status it writes; a Stage that did not verify does not file a receipt at all.",
      "transition": "Evaluate and record a governed Stage transition, or repair the receipt chain by dropping one leaf receipt. Repair is not a --force: it discards a recorded transition, reverting the Change to the Stage that transition left, and records what it discarded in the audit chain. Only a leaf may go — a receipt some later receipt chains to is load-bearing and is refused.",
      "approve": "Record an interactive human approval at the terminal, or submit/poll an mcp provider. There is no other approval mechanism. --for takes the id of the transition the approval unlocks (the value xforge state reports in nextActions[].command), not a literal word.",
      "audit": "Inspect, verify, export, redeliver, or prune the append-only audit chain.",
      "work-package": "Dispatch a work package, draft its delivery record from what XForge already knows, or acknowledge integration/review evidence. --scope records what the acknowledgement actually covered, in the acknowledger's own words; it is optional and never inferred, so an absent scope means nobody said.",
      "hook": "Internal platform Hook dispatcher.",
      "archive": "Verify, merge Specs, and atomically archive a Change.",
      "doctor": "Report unreferenced and dangling Flow/Skill/Rule/Gate/Hook/PermissionPolicy/Approval/McpServer extensions.",
      "upgrade-scaffold": "Stage the Scaffold this CLI ships beside the project's own and classify every file, so a person or an Agent can merge it.",
      "review": "Record that this Change's delivered work was reviewed, for Changes delivered without a work-package plan. The per-package form is `work-package acknowledge --as reviewer`, and this is refused when a plan exists. There is no --by: the actor comes from the environment, because a field inviting a reviewer's name invites a fabricated one.",
      "findings": "Record a person's answer to one Check finding and mark it resolved. Only this one transition: findings are written by the Check Stage, and this closes an entry that already exists. --by is checked against the approvers and Git authors this Change records, so a decision-maker can be cited but not invented."
    },
    "globalOptions": {
      "--root <path>": "Use an exact project root.",
      "--text": "Present the same result as readable text."
    },
    "commandHelp": {
      "usage": "xforge [--root <path>] check [--change <id>] [--gate <id>] [--stage <id> | --all-gates] [--force] [--text]",
      "description": "Validate project structure, deliveries, and the Gates the current Stage requires. With no Gate selection this also executes the verify commands declared by every work package, which for a large plan is dozens of external commands and minutes of wall time; narrowing with --gate, --stage or --all-gates runs only the selected Gates and skips them. Every one of those commands runs in this same working tree, one after another, so a verify command must be safe to re-enter: a suite that writes to a fixed scratch path, or asserts wall-clock throughput, will fail here for reasons that have nothing to do with the code under test.",
      "options": [
        "--root",
        "--change",
        "--gate",
        "--stage",
        "--all-gates",
        "--force",
        "--text"
      ]
    }
  },
  "diagnostics": [],
  "changes": [],
  "nextActions": []
}
